Here are a couple of notes on the dry run, because I can't name a single respect in which that could have gone worse.

First of all, this takes place on a computer. There's a clock on the top of my screen. USE IT. It sounds like I won't be expected to look out into the audience, so nothing is really lost from a couple of glances upwards. From what I could tell, the presentation - if I could really call it that - on Friday was entirely too short, and half of it was me stammering. I need to speak slower. And for the love of all things holy, if I can't think of what to say next, I NEED TO CLOSE MY MOUTH. 

Second of all, I'm reworking all of my slides. I need more examples, and those examples need pictures from the manuscript. I'll also add actual quotes + translations of Dionysius, instead of vaguely saying "Dionysius thought this" and expecting the audience to believe me. Also, the formatting of Table A isn't great. Honestly, I'm not sure if there's anything I can do about that at this point, but I'll try reformatting it if I can figure out how.

Also, what was the structure of that presentation supposed to be?? Start with a basic thesis statement. Then, work through the sections of the chapter. Finally, sum it up with a concluding sentence. I literally have all of these ideas written out and formatted already. It really shouldn't be that hard.

Really, what was that??? If Professor Smith and Professor Bird haven't already wondered if they're wasting their time on me, they're certainly wondering now. I really just don't get how I messed up so badly. I had everything written out for the chapter, in more detail than I actually needed for the conference. I only needed to fill fifteen minutes. It was supposed to be informal. I'm slightly concerned that, even with all these steps for improvement written out, I still can't pinpoint the largest factor in what went wrong. Even if my timing was off, and my structure needed improvement, and my slides needed reworking, I still should have been able to say something half-decent. I should have been able to _get words out_, at least. What was I doing??? There's really no good way to end this. I'll do better next week.
