Okay, I'm kind of lost so let's just do a stream of consciousness thing to establish what I still have to do.

First of all, the chapter on verbal adjectives is so close to being done. I just have to write the intro/conclusion and revise it a bunch of times. I'm not sure if my points about aspiration/accentuation actually make sense, so I'll have to ask Professor Smith about that. If those turn out to be valid points, I should also do more research on the differences between how Dionysius Thrax would pronounce Greek and how the Ven A scholiast would pronounce Greek. The tonality is presumably a big part of the poetry, and I can't imagine that the scholiast, who fixates on Dionysius' first point so much, would just ignore it if he's going to go to all the trouble of correcting accents and such. 

After that, I should reformat that chapter just a bit for the CANE panel. Also, I should ask Professor Smith about how this whole panel thing works. I lowkey forgot how quickly the CANE conference was approaching, so this really can't be put off any more.

Speaking of approaching deadlines, March is coming up FAST. Let's bang out another chapter, or at least get one to the point that the Verbal Adjectives chapter is now, by the end of the week. I already have the People section partially done, so that shouldn't be so difficult. I just have to take my notes and turn them into something that makes sense. I have PLANS for that chapter, and it's kind of frustrating that nothing is taking shape the way I want it to. In order to avoid the same problems I ran into with the Verbal Adjectives chapter, I should make a far more detailed outline of the chapter ahead of time. (Speaking of that chapter, I should take another look at chapter 1 of Schironi. I like the way she organized her run-down of literary critics, and would like to do it similarly.)

It honestly feels like I'm at a potter's wheel and the clay keeps collapsing in on itself. I'm working with this big lump of stuff, and I have an idea of how I want to shape it, but I can't physically form it into that shape. Maybe I should ask Dane and Luke how their writing process is coming? Professor Perry probably has office hours too, so I could ask her. 

In terms of self-assessment, I don't think I'm in the worst possible position with my thesis at the moment. However, maybe I'm just blocking out the fact that I still have at least six chapters left to write, plus the appendices. The topic modeling chapter shouldn't be that hard though, if I can EVER FIGURE OUT HOW MANY CLUSTERS TO USE. Also, the chapter on the Harley manuscript can't be that bad, right? The scribe really sat the reader down and said "These are the things which I deem important. They'll be pointed out to you with these symbols." If I'm going to contrast him with the Ven A scholiast and Dionysius Thrax, and I already have their ideas of what's important recorded, then my work is already half-done.

Stream of consciousness, part two:

Professor Smith says that I should be triangulating the verbal adjective stuff, the critical sign stuff, and the Dionysius Thrax stuff. I think he was talking about the same main idea that I was talking about: these are three different methods of outlining criteria for the same thing, but are the steps that they outline equally similar?

Also, in terms of the People chapter, apparently I should be using more primary sources. That shouldn't be exceptionally hard, I don't think. It seems that I've been relying on secondary sources a lot, and since I have all this access to primary sources, I should probably take advantage of it. In terms of what to use, I should probably go into detail about what the Aristonicus fragment is, how it's formatted, etc. Even if it isn't written out exactly as Aristonicus originally had it, this is the best approximation we have as to who he was as a scholar and how he liked to present his ideas. The Suda passage is also going to be useful. 

Lastly, I want to record it in case I forget: Professor Smith had this really cool idea about ranking scholia with critical signs in terms of how they fit into the categories in our table. My first thought was just to strip out the articles, particles, conjunctions, etc. and mark each remaining word as relavent to any or none of the categories. However, a word that might otherwise fall into no categories might become more relevant when used alongside the other words in the sentence, so we should probably go sentence by sentence instead. The next question, of course, is whether it should be a simple tally system in which longer scholia have more opportunities for points, or if we should account for length. As of right now, I favor the idea of converting our scores into percents, so that length doesn't matter as much, and it's easier to compare the scholia against each other. However, my thoughts on this might change as the research progresses.
