The following thesis explores the intertwined literary-critical works of four Homeric critics: Zenodotus, Aristarchus, Dionysius Thrax, and Aristonicus. Before analyzing the literary traditions themselves, it is important to establish that each of them currently exist in different states of completion. Zenodotus' and Aristarchus' works  works are all lost, but some of their phrasing can be identified in Homeric scholia, as I will show in chapter...  Dionysius Thrax's Art of the Grammarian (Τέχνη γραμματική) has been passed down in a condensed form. Folio 8 recto of the Venetus A manuscript preserves a single page of Aristonicus' On the Critical Signs of the _Iliad_ and _Odyssey_ (περὶ τῶν σημείων τῆς Ἰλιάδος καὶ Ὀδυσσείας). 

Because the corpus of these scholars is so sparse, it is nearly impossible to understand the works of each of these grammarians in isolation; however, when the works are considered in tandem with the grammarians' historical context and relation to each other, we can begin to see patterns that would otherwise not have emerged. For instance, the aforementioned page of Aristonicus' work may seem unimpressive at first - what use is one out-of-context page of a presumably expansive work? The contents of the work do little to allay this suspicion, as it merely explains the uses of critical signs, which could have been figured out without the use of this guide. The page becomes more important, however, when it is understood as part of an intergenerational discourse between Alexandrian scholars. The critical signs in question are Aristarchus', some of which he used to call into question the previous editing of Zenodotus. Aristonarchus not only provides a user's manual to critical editions of Homeric texts, but reconstructs an earlier discrepancy between grammarians and presents it to his audience, implying that Zenodotus and Aristarchus did not exhaust the issue and further exploration is warranted.

We will explore the interconnectivity of the works themselves in a later chapter. For now, it is important to establish who each scholar was, what conditions of his life may have impacted his scholarship, and how these conditions may also have affected the transmission of his work. **I have more to say about this, but right now my brain refuses to put it into words**

The first scholar we will examine in detail is Zenodotus of Ephesus, a grammarian from the third century BCE who rose to prominance as the first librarian at the Library of Alexandria. While Zenodotus is often used as a starting-point while talking about literary criticism in the Homeric tradition, it is important to acknowledge that his ideas did not spring from nothing; his list of irregular words known as Words (γλωσσαι) seems similar to the list known as Irregular Words  (Ἄτακτοι γλῶσσαι) written by his teacher, Philitas of Cos. While Zenodotus was continuing the work of the literary critics before him in some respects, he set himself apart from his predecessors through the use of his own system of critical signs. Zenodotus notably invented the obelos (ὀβελός) to indicate lines of the _Iliad_ and _Odyssey_ which he thought were not genuinely Homeric.

Aristarchus of Samothrace (c. 220 BCE - c. 143 BCE) continued Zenodotus' work not only as librarian at the Library of Alexandria, but as the developer of a cohesive system of critical signs. Disagreeing with much of what Zenodotus deemed un-Homeric, Aristarchus frequently used the dotted diple to indicate passages in which he felt Zenodotus overcorrected the text. The obelos and dotted diple, along with the asterisk, antisigma, and several other symbols, became part of a collection known as the Aristarchan critical signs.

While the Aristarchan critical signs would go on to have a great impact on Homeric scholarship, their transmission between generations of scholars was not straight forward. The end of Aristarchus' life coincided with the reign of Ptolemy VIII of Egypt, who exiled many scholars thought to be allies of the previous king. (As Aristarchus died in Cyprus, it is possible that he himself was exiled, but not enough biographical evidence survives to confirm or deny this.) The result of this exile was that Aristarchus' contemporaries and would-be successors, instead of carrying on his critical legacy in Alexandria, were scattered across the Mediterranean with no access to his works. The impact of this forced dispersion was compounded by the nature of Aristarchus' own texts. Instead of writing for a large audience, Aristarchus' literary-critical works were composed for other scholars in the Library of Alexandria to use. As his works ceased to exist shortly after his death, the next crop of scholars at Alexandria "were desperately trying to reconstruct and preserve his work" (Schironi, 7, 1). 

While the successors of Aristarchus may have been far from Alexandria and lacking written sources to work off of, their conditions did not halt their progress entirely. Dionysius Thrax (170 BCE - 90 BCE), a former student of Aristarchus, went on to write his _Art of the Grammarian_ while exiled in Rhodes. Instead of focusing primarily on his teacher's use of critical signs, Dionysius centered his work around other facets of literary criticism - including the importance of keeping a glossary of foreign terms, just as his predecessor Zenodotus had done. 

Aristarchus and his legacy also had a profound impact on the scholars who strove to reconstruct his work. One of these scholars was Aristonicus of Alexandria, who lived between the late first century BCE and early first century CE. Aristonicus gathered enough information about Aristarchus' scholarship to write On the Critical Signs of the Iliad and the Odyssey, which explained the Aristarchan system of critical signs and presented them to a new generation of scholars. 

