THINGS I NEED TO DO:
I am proposing a second tutorial on the literary-critical interests of Homeric scholars. Throughout the past semester, I have worked both with manuscripts and secondary scholarship to understand the Aristarchan literary-critical tradition, and how it was utilized and adapted by later scholars. In terms of manuscript research, Professor Smith and I have worked alongside Professor Bird, a professor at Gordon College and expert on critical signs who has also agreed to be a reader on my thesis, to edit and translate relevant manuscripts which have received little recognition in the past. The translations and accompanying commentaries will be included as appendacies to my thesis, in order to [...] , while the digital transcriptions will be released online so that other scholars may use them. Regarding more modern scholarship, I have been reading the recent works by Francesca Schironi and Rene Nunlist in order to understand how modern scholars have approached a similar topic, and what work on this front still needs to be done.
SAY HOW FAR I HAVE GOTTEN
Attached to this proposal, you will find my current thesis outline. The first section of the thesis exists in draft form. The second and sixth are currently underway, and I plan to have drafts of them completed by the end of the semester; during second semester, I plan to present these sections as part of a panel at the upcoming CANE conference. The remaining sections of my outline, then, would be the focus of next semester's tutorial.
EXPLAIN NEXT SEMESTER

AND FINALLY, KILL MYSELF.
