# Introduction

Aristarchus of Samothrace was supposed to die in obscurity. When Ptolemy VIII exiled Aristarchus and his contemporary scholars from Alexandria, his goal was to eliminate their cultural impact in order to bolster his own. Ptolemy may have cut Aristarchus' legacy short, preventing Aristarchus from conducting more scholarship as the superintendant of the Library of Alexandria, but he by no means eliminated it. Instead, the literary-critical tradition that Aristarchus started influenced scholars well into the Middle Ages. The _semeia_, or critical signs, invented by Aristarchus still hold cultural relevance today, as Aristarchus invented the asterisk. This thesis aims to explore the forms in which the literary-critical tradition survived, allowing it to outlast its creator by centuries. While it is not an exhaustive account of the works of scholars influenced by Aristarchus, and through whom the tradition carried on, the thesis examines the works of Aristonicus of Alexandria, Dionysius Thrax, and George Choiroboskos, and their respective influence on the scholiast of the Venetus A manuscript of the _Iliad_. Although the manuscript's composition in the tenth century C.E. places the Venetus A scholiast at a twelve century separation from Aristarchus, this paper aims to show, through close readings and topic models of the scholia, that the Venetus A scholiast shares many literary-critical interests with notable proponents of the Aristarchan tradition.

A considerable amount of scholarship has been done on the Venetus A manuscript. However, instead of relying mainly on secondary scholarship to inform me about the manuscript, I utilized the Homer Multitext Project's recently-published digital edition of the manuscript itself. Excited by what information a primary source could yield, I opted to use several more - namely, Dionysius Thrax's _Τέχνη Γραμματική_ and its accompanying scholia, the one remaining page of Aristonicus' _Περὶ τῶν Σημείων τῆς Ἰλιάδος καὶ Ὀδυσσείας_, and the _Suda_, a tenth century encyclopedia of the ancient Mediterranean. Just because the internet had granted me unprecedented access to primary sources, however, did not mean that I completely neglected secondary scholarship. Francesca Schironi's _The Best of the Grammarians: Aristarchus of Samothrace on the Iliad_ was a major influence on this thesis[^1].  Eleanor Dickey's *Ancient Greek Scholarship*[^2] and René Nunlist's *The Ancient Critic at Work*[^3] were both very helpful in understanding the technical langauge of the *scholia*.  For the technical work in this thesis, "Datasheets For Datasets" by Gebru *et al.*  provided a model for documenting the topic models I created.[^4]  The original paper on Latent Dirichlet Allocation by Blei *et al.* helped me understand topic modeling.[^5]



[^1]: @Schironi2018

[^2]: @Dickey2007 

[^3]: @Nunlist2009

[^4]: @Gebru2018  

[^5]: @BleiNgJordan2003



The thesis itself consists of four chapters, each covering a different aspect that will lead to the overall understanding of the Aristarchan tradition. The first chapter explains the evolution of the Aristarchan tradition through the texts left behind by Dionysius Thrax, Aristonicus, and George Choiroboskos. The second provides a translation of the first section of Dionysius' _Τέχνη Γραμματική_, and explains the division of Aristarchan literary-critical concerns into three major categories. Through close readings of the scholia, the third chapter demonstrates that the literary-critical concerns of the Venetus A scholiast fall into these same three categories. Lastly, the fourth chapter provides a broader view of the scholia, demonstrating how topic modeling can be used to analyse the scholia in ways that were not possible previously.

Additionally, this thesis includes several visual aids to better illustrate my findings. Section A of the appendices includes two tables of verbal adjectives, the creation and significance of which are covered in Chapter 2. Section B of the appendices consists of several topic models, which present the findings discussed in Chapter 3. While Chapter 3 provides a verbal explanation of the features of these topic models that I found to be the most noteworthy, topic models are intrinsically a visual mode of communication, and no written explanation of the models could be nearly as effective as showing them directly. Lastly, Section C of the appendices contains the newest diplomatic edition and translation of _περὶ τῶν σημείων τῆς Ἰλιάδος καὶ Ὀδυσσείας_ by Aristonicus of Alexandria. Co-authored by Professor Neel Smith from the College of the Holy Cross, Professor Graeme Bird from Gordon College, and myself, this edition and translation aim to be as true as possible to words of Aristonicus as they are preserved in the Venetus A. I have included this as part of the appendices as primary sources - including our new edition of _περὶ τῶν σημείων_, provided much of the information used for this thesis.

This thesis was overseen by Professor Neel Smith at the College of the Holy Cross, who was also a notable contributor to the Homer Multitext Project's publication of their edition of the Venetus A. Professor Smith and I worked alongside Professor Graeme Bird from Gordon College in order to edit and translate supplementary materials. Both of their contributions have been inexpressibly important, and this thesis would not have been possible without either of them. The thesis was typeset from source files in markdown using a modified version of Tom Pollard's template for writing a Ph.D. thesis @Pollard2016.
