# Topic modeling

## Introduction to Topic Modeling

While close reading of scholia is an integral facet of my research, as evidenced by the Verbal Adjective chapter, it does not need to be the only component. In prior decades, this would not be the case: research of scholia was limited to transcriptions and close readings, fit within the short span of time that a scholar could occupy space in a manuscript library. However, due to the recent digitization of the Venetus A manuscript, I can take advantage of a process called topic modeling and analyse scholia in a way other than close reading.
 
Topic modeling is a form of natural language processing which forms a statistical model of the “topics” which occur in any given corpus. A computer forms these “topics” by grouping the units (in this case, words) which co-occur the most frequently. This process is known as text-mining, and allows scholars to discover recurring semantic structures throughout the corpus which would not otherwise be readily recognizeable. Additionally, the use of topic modeling allows me to make observations about the entire corpus of scholia in the Venetus A manuscript without doing a close reading of all 14,336 of them. While this task would almost certainly yield interesting results, it simply was not a feasible goal for one component of a year-long project.

Another advantage of topic modeling is that it yields empirical results. Anyone who wants to replicate or build off of the findings in this paper can use the lists of words included with this thesis, as well as the stop words list, in order to get their own results. The stop words list is a collection of words which the computer is ordered to ignore when making its statistical models. For instance, articles and particles will appear evenly throughout the text regardless of context; for this reason, they are not important to include in the topic models, and thus are placed on the stop words list and filtered out. The different lists of words, meanwhile, display the different stages of topic modeling explored in this thesis. 

## Creating a Topic Model

Generating a topic model requires two documents: the first is the corpus that is being modeled, and the second is the "stop words" list. The first document is self-explanatory. Using the digital edition of the Venetus A manuscript created by the Homer Multitext project, a list of every scholion was assembled. Accents and breathing marks were omitted from this list, as the scribe was not always consistent in marking the same words the same way. Therefore, keeping the accents and breathing marks would have caused unneeded repetition in our topic models.

The stop words list, meanwhile, is a list which tells the topic modeling software which words to filter out. Certain words, such as articles and particles, appear so frequently that including them in the topic models would have shown nothing useful. Furthermore, these words would co-occur so frequently that they would form their own topic, providing no potential insight and taking up space that could have been used for a more meaningful topic. A common place to start in generating a stop words list is to add the words which appear the most frequently. That is, however, only the starting point; certain terms, such as the name Aristarchus, are both frequently-occurring and meaningful, and should be taken off of the stop words list. While it is obvious whether most words would add meaning to a topic model, certain words require experimentation. For instance, the word παρα occurs frequently, and is used to attribute a work to a certain author. Though this usage seemed like it might yield interesting results, topic models containing the word παρα proved that it occurred too frequently to add anything meaningful to the models, and it was added to the stop words list.

The first topic model was constructed using every scholion in the Venetus A. When I set out to topic model the scholia, I knew that this had to be done. After all, there are few ways to comprehensively analyse every scholion. However, by swapping out the list of scholia and stop words list, I could adjust my scope and find patterns in more specific groups of scholia.

## Topic Modeling With Critical Signs

Given the opportunity to broaden and narrow my scope as I pleased, I decided to analyze the intersection between two indicators of literary-critical interests: the verbal adjectives discussed in the previous chapter, and the critical signs invented by Aristarchus and Zenodotus. In order to create these topic models, I created separate lists of scholia with corresponding lines marked marked with diples, dotted diples, asteriskoi, or obeloi, which also contained verbal adjectives. (There are no scholia which contain a verbal adjective and are marked with an antisigma, a dotted antisigma, or a reverse dotted antisigma.) This way, I could see whether specific critical signs was more likely to correspond with any of the aforementioned categories of verbal adjectives.

Of these topic models, I found it most telling to the "key" verbal adjectives of each category. In the topic model for scholia corresponding with a diple, διασταλτεον appears in the ten "key" words in seven out of fifteen topics. _Στικτεον_, _γραπτεον_, _ακουστεον_, _παραιτητεον_, _περισπαστεον_, _προπερισπαστεον_, _ιστεον_, _αναγνωστεον_, and _εκληπτεον_ all appear in the key words of these fifteen topics as well. Notably, these words mainly fall into the Marking and Pronouncing category and the Scholarly Argument category of verbal adjectives. After finding this, I wondered if the other critical signs followed this pattern. I hypothesized that the obelos in particular would have more verbal adjectives from the Editorial Vocabulary category, as the obelos is used to show when a line has been judged un-Homeric. 

The dotted diple topic model followed the same pattern as the Topic Model B, with _διασταλτεον_, _ακουστεον_, _ρητεον_, _συσταλτεον_, _προπερισπαστεον_, and _προενεκτεον_ all showing up as key terms. Surprisingly to me, the obelos topic model did as well. The key words in the topics of the obelos-marked scholia include _οξυτονητεον_, _περισπαστεον_, _στικτεον_, _μεταληπτεον_, _αναστρεπτεον_, _διασταλτεον_, _θετεον_, _ψιλωτεον_, and _γραπτεον_. However, outside of the verbal adjectives, the obelos topic model was markedly different from the others. It was the only model to include forms of _αθετεω_ (specifically, _αθετειται_ and _αθετουνται_) as key words. It also included the word _αστερισκοι_ as a key word, inherently connecting the obelos and asteriskos categories. This makes sense, as according to Aristonicus, the asteriskos is used to denote correctly-placed lines that are placed wrongly - and thus, are marked with an obelos - elsewhere in the text. The asteriskos topic model, however, does not include _οβελοι_ as a key term, making this relationship seem rather one-sided. 

The frequent correspondence between critical signs and verbal adjectives in the scholarly argument category, as opposed to the krisis category, makes sense. After all, if a line is athetized, having a scholion to explain that it must be athetized is redundant; having a scholion to explain _why_ it must be athetized, however, is far more useful to the reader. Based on the last chapter's close reading of the scholion on line 8.191, lines with both critical signs and corresponding scholia talking about krisis do exist. However, as is demonstrated by the topic models, these are not nearly as common as lines with critical signs and corresponding scholia showing scholarly work.
