Through close readings of the scholia and topic modeling, I identified many literary-critical interests shared between the Venetus A scholiast and the earlier followers of the Aristarchan tradition. Specifically, both Dionysius Thrax and the Venetus A scholiast instructed their readers in terms of anagnosis, scholarly arguments, and krisis. In terms of anagnosis, while the Venetus A scholiast did not touch upon delivery, he mirrors Dionysius in terms of his discussion of prosody and pauses. Additionally, when talking about prosody, the Venetus A scholiast covered tone, length, and breathing, which are the facets which George Choiroboskos alleged would have mattered to Dionysius Thrax. Given that they shared so many literary-critical interests, I believe that the scholiast of the Venetus A took much inspiration from the followers of Aristarchus in terms of his own methodology. I cannot say for certain whether the scholiast had access to the Techne Grammatike itself, or the works of someone commenting on the Techne Grammatike, but the overlap in interests displayed by these scholars, centuries apart, is too significant to be a coincidence. 

Topic modeling allowed us to confirm what we had learned through close readings, as it allowed us to take every scholion throughout the Venetus A into account. The striking amount of "scholarly argument" topics, whether centering around backstories or grammar, reinforced our findings that the scholiast focused on many of the same topics as the early followers of Aristarchus. After all, Dionysius Thrax dedicated four of his six components of literary criticism to the construction of scholarly arguments; it was cleary very important to him, and based upon our topic models, we can conclude that this same step was exceedingly important to the scholiast as well.

One of the most important facets of our findings is that they are empirical and, to an extent, replicable. While not every topic model will be identical by nature of the software, any future scholar could check our findings by using the same list of words and stopwords list, and generating similar topic models to analyze. This is important because it is a relatively new phenomenon in Classics, and especially in studying manuscripts. For centuries, the study of manuscripts has been limited to believing the obervations of a few select scholars, who had days or merely hours with the manuscripts to collect their findings. To create something replicable, which anyone can access and replicate, was only made possible through the rise of digital humanities. Thus, while this is the conclusion of my thesis, I firmly do not believe that it is the conclusion of this research. I hope, and expect, that others will pick up where I left off, capitalizing on updated editions of the manuscript and new analytical software to build off of the findings contained in this thesis.
   
