Prerequisite Information:

If this thesis aims to establish what literary-critical interests the Venetus A scholiast shares with foundational members of the Aristarchan tradition, it must first define who those members are, and what interests they had. The following will by no means be an exhaustive account of scholars who followed Aristarchus and all of their works; instead, I will provide an introduction to a few proponents of the Aristarchan tradition whose contributions were significant, and who were substantially connected to either Aristarchus himself or his works. This allows us to get as close as possible to the source of the tradition without looking at the works of Aristarchus himself. Admittedly, looking at the eight hundred-some works that Aristarchus reportedly wrote would be the ideal method, but as none of those works survive today, we can only learn about Aristarchus' methodology through the works of those around him.

As such, our account of the Aristarchan tradition must reach back before Aristarchus himself. It actually starts with Zenodotus of Ephesus, a grammarian during the 3rd century BCE who served as the first superintendant of the Library of Alexandria. While his colleagues at the Library, Alexander of Aetolia and Lycophron of Calchis, studied theatre, Zenodotus specialized in epic poetry and became the first critical editor of Homer. As part of his studies, Zenodotus compiled a list of uncommon words and their definitions, known as the _Γλῶσσαι_. Along with hypothesizing about these words that had fallen out of use, Zenodotus took it upon himself to mark lines of the _Iliad_ and _Odyssey_ which he thought were later additions, using a horizontal line called an _obelos_. This was the first recorded use of the _σημεῖα_ for literary criticism.

His successor at the Library of Alexandria, Aristarchus of Samothrace (216-144 BCE), took it upon himself to expand upon and revise Zenodotus' fledgling field of Homeric criticism - seemingly because he disagreed with so much of it. Along with debating whether lines obelized by Zenodotus were truly un-Homeric, Aristarchus also created more _σημεῖον_ so that he could easily indicate more concepts. Among these were the _ἀστερίσκος_, _σίγμα_, and _ἀντίσιγμα_. Now, instead of merely indicating which lines were un-Homeric, the _σημεῖα_ could also point out misplaced and duplicate lines. While Zenodotus had started the field of Homeric literary criticism, Aristarchus added necessary components in order to make it more applicable and exact.

Towards the end of his life, Aristarchus was most likely either exiled by Ptolomy Physcon, or exiled himself to avoid a similar fate. Thus, Aristarchus joined the growing Alexandrian diaspora of scholars evicted from the Alexandria once Ptolemy Physcon usurped the throne and became Ptolemy VIII Euergetes II. One might assume that as he fled his homeland, Aristarchus would spread his works throughout his new home of Cyprus, preserving it for a new audience. However, this was not the case. Aristarchus wrote for a particularly niche audience - namely, other scholars at the Library of Alexandria - and once he disappeared from Alexandria, so did his works. The _Suda_, a 10th century document which provides a biography of Aristarchus, claims that he "λέγεται δὲ γράψαι ὑπὲρ ωʹ βιβλία ὑπομνημάτων μόνων." Unfortunately, this figure of eight hundred books cannot be verified, as none of Aristarchus' works are extant today. In fact, just a few generations after his death, literary scholars were already scrambling to reconstruct his works. The question is, if Aristarchus' works were mostly gone within a few generations, why did future grammarians _want_ to reconstruct his works? Who had convinced them that his works were worth saving?

The answer, of course, would be those forty-some students that Aristarchus tutored prior to his exile. Specifically, his student Dionysius Thrax (170-90 BCE) became one of the best-remembered grammarians of his time, as his work _Τέχνη γραμματική_ outlasted Aristarchus' corpus by far and still exists today. Dionysius took a vastly different approach to scholarship than the aforementioned grammarians, which is probably why his works outlasted theirs almost in its entirety. Aristarchus' works cannot be divorced from their Homeric context, and were specifically intended to inform future students at the Library of the emerging field of Homeric literary criticism. Dionysius, on the other hand, covered far more universal topics in his _Τέχνη γραμματική_, such as nouns, conjunctions, and conjugation. An audiance which was not studying Homer at the Library of Alexandria would still have use for Dionysius' text, which resulted in it being passed down as a somewhat definitive guide to grammar for the subsequent centuries. Thus, in the generations before scholars began reconstructing Aristarchus' works, the prolific works of Dionysius and his other students still attested his worth as a scholar.

First, practiced oral reading with regard to prosody
Second, explanation in accordance with the poetic figures
Third, accounting for words and background information
Fourth, discovery of etymologies
Fifth, setting out paradigms
Sixth, krisis of the poems, which is the most beautiful aspect of the art


As of the late first century BCE, when his students were no longer around to carry on his teachings, the movement to reconstruct Aristarchus' works had begun. Aristonicus of Alexandria contributed to this movement through his _Περὶ τῶν σημείων τῶν τῆς Ἰλιάδος καὶ Ὀδυσσείας_, which explained the functions of the critical signs used by Aristarchus. His non-Aristarchan works, _Περὶ τῆς Μενελάου πλάνης_ and _ἀσυντάκτων ὀνομάτων βιβλία_, unfortunately did not survive; however, once the world had a second chance to preserve the Aristarchan tradition, it would not go to waste; one page of _Περὶ τῶν σημείων τῶν τῆς Ἰλιάδος καὶ Ὀδυσσείας_ was preserved in the Venetus A manuscript of the _Iliad_, confirming that Aristonicus' work on Aristarchus was still being actively replicated as of the tenth century CE.

The Venetus A manuscript itself represents the final step of the Aristarchan tradition's evolution: having moved far beyond the inner circle of scholars in the Library of Alexandria, the tradition was adopted and altered by scribes for their own purposes. Some Homeric scribes, such as the one who wrote the Venetus A manuscript, kept Aristarchus' system more or less as it was presented by Aristonicus. Other manuscripts, such as the grammatical treatise attributed to Suetonius, combined the Aristarchan _σημεῖα_ with other signs in order to adapt them for a non-Homeric context. Thus, a literary tradition which was almost lost became one of the longest-lasting and most recognizeable systems for literary criticism.

After raising the question of which sources existed, we must then consider which of them would have been available to the Venetus A scholiast during the 10th century CE. Certainly, at least part of Aristonicus' work survived, as the scholiast copied it over into the manuscript itself. Whether or not he took inspiration from it in terms of his methodology, he definitely read it. It seems likely that he would have had access to Techne Grammatike, as it was the defining text on Greek grammar. At the time of the manuscript's composition, the works of George Choiroboskos would have been just decades old; they would be more or less on the cutting edge of scholarship at the time, and again, it seems probable that the scholiast might have had access to them. Still, the main question is not whether the scholiast looked at these texts, but whether he incorporated them into his own methodology. In the next chapter of this thesis, I intend to answer just that.
