Introduction to Topic Modeling:

While close reading of scholia is an integral facet of my research, as evidenced by the Verbal Adjective chapter, it does not need to be the only component. In prior decades, this would not be the case: research of scholia was limited to transcriptions and close readings, fit within the short span of time that a scholar could occupy space in a manuscript library. However, due to the recent digitization of the Venetus A manuscript, I can take advantage of a process called topic modeling and analyse scholia in a way other than close reading.
 
Topic modeling is a form of natural language processing which forms a statistical model of the “topics” which occur in any given corpus. A computer forms these “topics” by grouping the units (in this case, words) which co-occur the most frequently. This process is known as text-mining, and allows scholars to discover recurring semantic structures throughout the corpus which would not otherwise be readily recognizeable. Additionally, the use of topic modeling allows me to make observations about the entire corpus of scholia in the Venetus A manuscript without doing a close reading of all 14,336 of them. While this task would almost certainly yield interesting results, it simply was not a feasible goal for one component of a year-long project.

Another advantage of topic modeling is that it yields empirical results. Anyone who wants to replicate or build off of the findings in this paper can use the lists of words included with this thesis, as well as the stop words list, in order to get their own results. The stop words list is a collection of words which the computer is ordered to ignore when making its statistical models. For instance, articles and particles will appear evenly throughout the text regardless of context; for this reason, they are not important to include in the topic models, and thus are placed on the stop words list and filtered out. The different lists of words, meanwhile, display the different stages of topic modeling explored in this thesis. 

The Initial Model:

My initial topic model was created using the list labeled All Words, which fittingly contains all words included in the scholia. 


The Updated Model:

While my initial model was promising, there were several issues with it that I sought to correct. Firstly, as the words had not yet been tokenized, different forms of the same name (i.e. Αρισταρχος, Αρισταρχ) were counted as separate tokens. Thus, if the name were to appear as a key word, it might take up two spots instead of one, taking the spot from another word which would have given us a more well-rounded understanding of the topic. Ideally, I would have been able to tokenize every word in order to avoid this; unfortunately, that was not possible due to time constraints. It was possible, however, to replace each person and place name with their URN tag. Within the digital edition of the Venetus A, every person, place, and ethnic group is assigned its own URN tag. This way, a search of the person's tag could yield all of their appearances, even if they were referred to by two different names (Achilles, son of Peleus). Replacing each occurance of a person's name with their URN would eliminate some of the unnecessary repetition.

Topic Modeling With Critical Signs:

Building off of the last chapter of this thesis, I also created topic models incorporating the verbal adjectives, and their co-occurence with the Aristarchan critical signs. As was previously established, the verbal adjectives tell what a scholar should do, according to the scholiast, when reading and analysing the texts. The critical signs serve a similar purpose, explaining the literary critics's thought process while creating a critical edition. Both the critical signs and the verbal adjectives point to literary-critical interests which were deemed important during the creation of the Venetus A. Thus, I wanted to see how these features of the text worked in tandem. I created a topic models of the scholia including verbal adjectives based on whether they were marked with a diple, a dotted diple, an asteriskos, or an obelos. (There are no scholia which contain a verbal adjective and are marked with an antisigma, a dotted antisigma, or a reverse dotted antisigma.) 

Of these topic models, I found it most telling to the "key" verbal adjectives of each category. In the diple topic models, διασταλτεον appears in the ten "key" words in seven out of fifteen topics. _Στικτεον_, _γραπτεον_, _ακουστεον_, _παραιτητεον_, _περισπαστεον_, _προπερισπαστεον_, _ιστεον_, _αναγνωστεον_, and _εκληπτεον_ all appear in the key words of these fifteen topics as well. Notably, these words mainly fall into the Marking and Pronouncing category and the Scholarly Argument category of verbal adjectives. After finding this, I wondered if the other critical signs followed this pattern. I hypothesized that the obelos in particular would have more verbal adjectives from the Editorial Vocabulary category, as the obelos is used to show when a line has been judged un-Homeric. 

The dotted diple topic model followed the same pattern as the diple topic model, with _διασταλτεον_, _ακουστεον_, _ρητεον_, _συσταλτεον_, _προπερισπαστεον_, and _προενεκτεον_ all showing up as key terms. Surprisingly to me, the obelos topic model did as well. The key words in the topics of the obelos-marked scholia include _οξυτονητεον_, _περισπαστεον_, _στικτεον_, _μεταληπτεον_, _αναστρεπτεον_, _διασταλτεον_, _θετεον_, _ψιλωτεον_, and _γραπτεον_. However, outside of the verbal adjectives, the obelos topic model was markedly different from the others. It was the only model to include forms of _αθετεω_ (specifically, _αθετειται_ and _αθετουνται_) as key words. It also included the word _αστερισκοι_ as a key word, inherently connecting the obelos and asteriskos categories. This makes sense, as according to Aristonicus, the asteriskos is used to denote correctly-placed lines that are placed wrongly - and thus, are marked with an obelos - elsewhere in the text. The asteriskos topic model, however, does not include _οβελοι_ as a key term, making this relationship seem rather one-sided. 

The presence of Scholarly Argument verbal adjectives in the obelos key terms, as opposed to Editorial Vocabulary verbal adjectives, speaks to the intermediary function of the Scholarly Argument category. Whereas I had assumed that scholia with an obelos would contain verbal adjectives expressing that "one must obelize this line because," the verbal adjectives were absent from the key words list. This is because, seemingly, the obelos tells the reader all that they need to know; after placing the obelos, the scribe is more concerned with making a scholarly argument for the inaccuracy of the line, rather than reiterating that the line is inaccurate. For instance, one of the scholia in question is as follows:

_αμφιβολος η στιγμη δια το μοριον επει και αυτο αμφιβολον· ομως δε εις το ος υποτακτικον αρθ αυτο μεταληπτεον_

This scholion comments on line 1.388 of the _Iliad_, in which Achilles weeps to his mother and implores her to supplicate Zeus. The line is one of sixteen obelized on the page, three of which are also marked with an asteriskos. The first line of this scholion explains that this line is inthe middle of a section of obelized lines. It then explains how the postpositive word must be taken, but provides no further information as to the athetesis.

