His successor at the Library of Alexandria, Aristarchus of Samothrace (216-144 BCE), took it upon himself to expand upon and revise Zenodotus' fledgling field of Homeric criticism - seemingly because he disagreed with so much of it. Along with debating whether lines obelized by Zenodotus were truly un-Homeric, Aristarchus also created more σημεῖον so that he could easily indicate more concepts. Among these were the ἀστερίσκος, σίγμα, and ἀντίσιγμα. Now, instead of merely indicating which lines were un-Homeric, the σημεῖα could also point out misplaced and duplicate lines. While Zenodotus had started the field of Homeric literary criticism, Aristarchus added necessary components in order to make it more applicable and exact.Towards the end of his life, Aristarchus was most likely either exiled by Ptolomy Physcon, or exiled himself to avoid a similar fate. Thus, Aristarchus joined the growing Alexandrian diaspora of scholars evicted from the Alexandria once Ptolemy Physcon usurped the throne and became Ptolemy VIII Euergetes II. One might assume that as he fled his homeland, Aristarchus would spread his works throughout his new home of Cyprus, preserving it for a new audience. However, this was not the case. Aristarchus wrote for a particularly niche audience - namely, other scholars at the Library of Alexandria - and once he disappeared from Alexandria, so did his works. The Suda, a 10th century document which provides a biography of Aristarchus, claims that he "λέγεται δὲ γράψαι ὑπὲρ ωʹ βιβλία ὑπομνημάτων μόνων." Unfortunately, this figure of eight hundred books cannot be verified, as none of Aristarchus' works are extant today. In fact, just a few generations after his death, literary scholars were already scrambling to reconstruct his works. The question is, if Aristarchus' works were mostly gone within a few generations, why did future grammarians want to reconstruct his works? Who had convinced them that his works were worth saving?
The answer, of course, would be those forty-some students that Aristarchus tutored prior to his exile. Specifically, his student Dionysius Thrax (170-90 BCE) became one of the best-remembered grammarians of his time, as his work Τέχνη γραμματική outlasted Aristarchus' corpus by far and still exists today. Dionysius took a vastly different approach to scholarship than the aforementioned grammarians, which is probably why his works outlasted theirs almost in its entirety. Aristarchus' works cannot be divorced from their Homeric context, and were specifically intended to inform future students at the Library of the emerging field of Homeric literary criticism. Dionysius, on the other hand, covered far more universal topics in his Τέχνη γραμματική, such as nouns, conjunctions, and conjugation. An audiance which was not studying Homer at the Library of Alexandria would still have use for Dionysius' text, which resulted in it being passed down as a somewhat definitive guide to grammar for the subsequent centuries. Thus, in the generations before scholars began reconstructing Aristarchus' works, the prolific works of Dionysius and his other students still attested his worth as a scholar. As is often the case when studying the ancient world, one can not study the Aristarchan tradition directly. Shortly after his presumed exile from Alexandria, Aristarchus' works went missing. However, they were not gone without a trace. One of the best sources as to what Aristarchus thought are the works of Dionysius Thrax, his student. Dionysius Thrax wrote the Art of the Grammarian. Currently, the Art of the Grammarian contains twenty-five separate sections, each outlining a different rule for grammarians to follow. This may or may not have been the original configuration; scholars believe that while later scribes kept Dionysius' ideas in tact while passing his work onto new manuscripts, they may have adjusted the formatting or pared it down. Regardless, the Art of the Grammarian lays out Dionysius' thoughts on how texts should be read. While his ideas cannot be assumed to be identical to Aristarchus', they are one part of the puzzle.
The other part of the puzzle is the Venetus A manuscript, which comes along much later in the course of the Aristarchan tradition. In the beginning of the Venetus A manuscript, the scribe records the works of Aristonicus, who strove to reconstruct the works of Aristarchus about a century after his death. This is the only known copy of Aristonicus' work still extant today, and even now, only a page survives. However, if the scribe saw it fit to record Aristonicus' works, he must have seen value in Aristonicus' - and thus, Aristarchus' - ideas of literary scholarship. 
While our knowledge of what Aristonicus thought was important is limited, our knowledge of what this Aristonicus-appreciating scribe deemed important is far more comprehensive. This is because of the use of verbal adjectives ending in -τεον in the scholia.  Out of the seventy-six different verbal adjectives which appear in the scholia, seventy-four of them refer to what the scholiast thinks a person must do in order to understand the text. (The remaining two, πολεμητέον and φυλακτέον, refer to actions which must be taken within the context of the story.) Thus, the scholiast issues seventy-four direct commands to his readers. While we may not know what Aristarchus found important, we know what a person who appreciated Aristarchus' work found important, in impressive detail.
As of the late first century BCE, when his students were no longer around to carry on his teachings, the movement to reconstruct Aristarchus' works had begun. Aristonicus of Alexandria contributed to this movement through his Περὶ τῶν σημείων τῶν τῆς Ἰλιάδος καὶ Ὀδυσσείας, which explained the functions of the critical signs used by Aristarchus. His non-Aristarchan works, Περὶ τῆς Μενελάου πλάνης and ἀσυντάκτων ὀνομάτων βιβλία, unfortunately did not survive; however, once the world had a second chance to preserve the Aristarchan tradition, it would not go to waste; one page of Περὶ τῶν σημείων τῶν τῆς Ἰλιάδος καὶ Ὀδυσσείας was preserved in the Venetus A manuscript of the Iliad, confirming that Aristonicus' work on Aristarchus was still being actively replicated as of the tenth century CE. The Venetus A manuscript itself represents the final step of the Aristarchan tradition's evolution: having moved far beyond the inner circle of scholars in the Library of Alexandria, the tradition was adopted and altered by scribes for their own purposes. Some Homeric scribes, such as the one who wrote the Venetus A manuscript, kept Aristarchus' system more or less as it was presented by Aristonicus. Other manuscripts, such as the grammatical treatise attributed to Suetonius, combined the Aristarchan σημεῖα with other signs in order to adapt them for a non-Homeric context. Thus, a literary tradition which was almost lost became one of the longest-lasting and most recognizeable systems for literary criticism.
In my research, I focused on the first section, in which Dionysius laid out his six fundamental steps towards interacting thoroughly with a text:
>ΠΕΡΙ ΓΡΑΜΜΑΤΙΚΗΣ.
>Γραμματική ἐστιν ἐμπειρία τῶν παρὰ ποιηταῖς τε καὶ συγγραφεῦσιν ὡς ἐπὶ τὸ πολὺ λεγομένων. Μέρη δὲ αὐτῆς εἰσὶν ἕξ· πρῶτον ἀνάγνωσις ἐντριβὴς κατὰ προσῳδίαν, >δεύτερον ἐξήγησις κατὰ τοὺς ἐνυπάρχοντας ποιητικοὺς τρόπους, τρίτον γλωσσῶν τε καὶ ἱστοριῶν πρόχειρος ἀπόδοσις, τέταρτον ἐτυμολογίας εὕρεσις, πέμπτον ἀναλογίας >ἐκλογισμός, ἕκτον κρίσις ποιημάτων, ὃ δὴ κάλλιστόν ἐστι πάντων τῶν ἐν τῇ τέχνῃ.
Dionysius' first rule states that a grammarian must be proficient in ανάγνωσίς (anagnosis). In the specific context of literary criticism, ανάγνωσίς refers to reading the text aloud. Before a grammarian can fully understand a text, or even progress to the next steps towards understanding, Dionysius asserts that they must be able to recite the text orally. In the second section, he elaborates that reading aloud ensures that the grammarian is familiar with the tone, prosody, and pauses (καθ᾽ ὑπόκρισιν, κατὰ προσῳδίαν, κατὰ διαστολήν), as well as with the words themselves.
From the seventy-four verbal adjectives of interest, I have made three main categories: Marking/Pronouncing, Scholarly Argument, and Editorial Vocabulary. Of these three, only the Marking/Pronouncing category maps neatly onto Dionysius' methodology; specifically, every verbal adjective under that category corresponds with Dionysius' first rule. Interestingly, both Dionysius and the Venetus A scholiast seem to hold this step of the process in high regard. Whereas Dionysius showed its importance by placing it first in his list, the Venetus A scholiast conveyed the same idea by using eighteen separate verbal adjectives to say "one must the text correctly."  Notably, the scholiast also touches upon all three of Dionysius' criteria for a proper reading (ὑπόκρισιν, προσῳδίαν, and διαστολήν) as well as adding a fouth category, aspiration.
In terms of reading aloud, the Venetus A scribe pays a disproportionate amount of attention to accentuation. This makes sense, as by the Byzantine period, tonal accents had been phased out of spoken Greek. However, as "accentuation deserves as much attention as any other feature, if the attempt is made to accustom the ear to the sound of a language," a scholar could not hope to effectively read the Iliad - and thus, to analyze it - unless the accents were in their proper places (Sealey 1963). [COME BACK TO THIS] By Dionysius' time, scholars believe that tonal accents were already starting to disappear. Therefore, it would be imperative for his readers to read the Iliad aloud, instead of silently, in order to fully grasp the tonality of the text. Similarly, the Venetus A scholiast...

| Marking/Pronouncing   | Scholarly Argument | Editorial Vocabulary|
|-----------------------|--------------------|---------------------|
| δασυντέον             | ῥητέον             | ἀθετητέον           |
| ἐκτατέον              | θετέον             | συντακτέον          |
| οξυτονητέον           | νομιστέον          | συναπτέον           |
| ὀξυντέον              | ἐκδεκτέον          | δίασταλτέον         |
| παροξυντέον           | ποιητέον           | διαιρετέον          |
| περισπαστέον          | προοιστέον         | γραπτέον            |
| προπερισπαστέον       | λεκτέον            | ἀποδοτέον           |
| προπαροξυτομητέον     | ἀρκτέον            | τηρητέον            |
| προσπνευστέον         | ληπτέον            | ὀρθονητέον          |
| προενεκτέον           | μεταληπτέον        |                     |
| στηκτέον              | πιστέον            |                     |
| συσταλτέον            | πιστευτέον         |                     |
| ὑποστικτέον           | λεκτέον            |                     |
| βαρυτονητέον          | ἰστέον             |                     |
| ψιλωτέον              | θετέον             |                     |
| ἐγκλιτέον             |                    |                     |
| ἀναστρεπτέον          |                    |                     |
| ἀτενιστέον            |                    |                     |



|   Tone          |   Prosody   |   Pauses   | Aspiration |
|-----------------|-------------|------------|------------|
|οξυτονητέον      |ἐκτατέον     |ὑποστικτέον |δασυντέον   |
|ὀξυντέον         |συσταλτέον   |            |ψιλωτέον    |
|παροξυντέον      |ἐγκλιτέον    |            |            |
|περισπαστέον     |             |            |            |
|προπερισπαστέον  |             |            |            |
|προπαροξυτομητέον|             |            |            |
|βαρυτονητέον     |             |            |            |


[Concluding Paragraph]
